README.md, before:

# slox

This is an interpreter of the Lox Language written in Swift.

This project follows Bob Nystrom's excellent book,
[Crafting Interpreters](http://www.craftinginterpreters.com)
which takes you through the process of writing an interpreter for a language
called Lox. The book is being released as chapters are completed, one chapter
at a time.

## Progress
As of 3 Jun 2017, this code is up to date with the book. The following chapters
are implemented:

4. Scanning
5. Representing Code
6. Parsing Expressions
7. Evaluating Expressions
8. Statements and State

## Goals & Design
The main goal is to write a Lox interpreter in Swift while demonstrating
Swift's strengths. The project takes advantage of Swift's enums and
extensions to implementer the interpreter in a type-safe, clear and concise
way.

**Enums for type safety.** The reference Java implementation stores and
exchanges all Lox data as Java `Object` types. This neccessates runtime
type checks and coerced type casting. In this Swift implementation, enums
are used instead to create a restricted and explicit set of possible Lox
data types with the actual data attached as associated values to the
enum cases in the correct Swift types. There's no type casting and the
`Any` type (Swift's equivalent to `Object`) is not used in this project.

**Enums make the visitor pattern redundant.** As Bob Nystrom says in the
book:

> The Visitor pattern is really about approximating the functional style
> within an OOP language.

Fortunately, it's totally unnecessary in Swift! As a *multi-paradigm*
programming laugnage, Swift has support for both the OOP and
functional-styles of programming. Instead of using objects, the Swift
version uses enum cases with associated values to represent the
different kinds of expressions that get parsed. Different operations
you need to perform on the expressions can then be written as simple
recursive functions with a switch statement over the differet kinds
of expressions.

This is an important improvement since the visitor pattern adds so much
cruft and boilerplate code to the Java version that one of the first
things you have to do is write a little code generator utility to
produce the supporting Java code.

**Extensions for better code organization.** Swift's extensions allow
you to add to an existing data type outside of its inital declaration.
For example, the abstract syntax tree printer is written as a function
in a source file separate from the expression data type, `Expr`.
However, it is added to the `Expr` data type as a simple computed
property that returns a string and can be accessed like this:

```swift
expression.ast
```

Without extensions, you would need to make an `ast` function that
takes the expression as an argument. Since the function is now in
the global namespace, it would be a bad idea to just call it `ast`.
This is what the Java implementation looks like:

```java
new AstPrinter().print(expression)
```

## Alternatives
* Alejandro Martinez
[beat me to the port and name](https://github.com/alexito4/slox).

* Bob Nystrom lists ports in different languages on the
[books wiki on GitHub](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/wiki/Lox-implementations).

## License
MIT

Commit message:

Update readme with test information

README.md, after:

# slox

This is an interpreter of the Lox Language written in Swift.

This project follows Bob Nystrom's excellent book,
[Crafting Interpreters](http://www.craftinginterpreters.com)
which takes you through the process of writing an interpreter for a language
called Lox. The book is being released as chapters are completed, one chapter
at a time.

## Progress
As of 3 Jun 2017, this code is up to date with the book. The following chapters
are implemented:

4. Scanning
5. Representing Code
6. Parsing Expressions
7. Evaluating Expressions
8. Statements and State

## Tests
As of 13 Jun 2017, the test suite is up to date with the reference Java
implementation and all chapter 8 tests pass successfully.

To run the tests:

```shell
$ swift build
$ ./test_swift.py chap08_statements
```

## Goals & Design
The main goal is to write a Lox interpreter in Swift while demonstrating
Swift's strengths. The project takes advantage of Swift's enums and
extensions to implementer the interpreter in a type-safe, clear and concise
way.

**Enums for type safety.** The reference Java implementation stores and
exchanges all Lox data as Java `Object` types. This neccessates runtime
type checks and coerced type casting. In this Swift implementation, enums
are used instead to create a restricted and explicit set of possible Lox
data types with the actual data attached as associated values to the
enum cases in the correct Swift types. There's no type casting and the
`Any` type (Swift's equivalent to `Object`) is not used in this project.

**Enums make the visitor pattern redundant.** As Bob Nystrom says in the
book:

> The Visitor pattern is really about approximating the functional style
> within an OOP language.

Fortunately, it's totally unnecessary in Swift! As a *multi-paradigm*
programming laugnage, Swift has support for both the OOP and
functional-styles of programming. Instead of using objects, the Swift
version uses enum cases with associated values to represent the
different kinds of expressions that get parsed. Different operations
you need to perform on the expressions can then be written as simple
recursive functions with a switch statement over the differet kinds
of expressions.

This is an important improvement since the visitor pattern adds so much
cruft and boilerplate code to the Java version that one of the first
things you have to do is write a little code generator utility to
produce the supporting Java code.

**Extensions for better code organization.** Swift's extensions allow
you to add to an existing data type outside of its inital declaration.
For example, the abstract syntax tree printer is written as a function
in a source file separate from the expression data type, `Expr`.
However, it is added to the `Expr` data type as a simple computed
property that returns a string and can be accessed like this:

```swift
expression.ast
```

Without extensions, you would need to make an `ast` function that
takes the expression as an argument. Since the function is now in
the global namespace, it would be a bad idea to just call it `ast`.
This is what the Java implementation looks like:

```java
new AstPrinter().print(expression)
```

## Alternatives
* Alejandro Martinez
[beat me to the port and name](https://github.com/alexito4/slox).

* Bob Nystrom lists ports in different languages on the
[books wiki on GitHub](https://github.com/munificent/craftinginterpreters/wiki/Lox-implementations).

## License
MIT
